Jenkins Pipeline 
    How to create a jenkins pipeline job ?
	1. We can add pipeline configuration in 2 ways 
		a. We write all the configuration inside the pipeline job in job ui only.
		b. We can write all the configuration in a file called Jenkinsfile and we can add that 
		   from a SCM/Version control 
	2. We are using only declarative pipeline type in our company.


    What are the ways to create a jenkins Job ?  
    What is a Jenkinsfile ?

    Jenkinsfile	
	- It is the file in which we write all our job configuration in groovy.
	- In our company we are using declarative pipeline in Jenkinsfile and we are maintaining 
	  Jenkinsfile through git.	

    Types of pipeline jobs 
	Jenkins pipeline uses Groovy scripting which 
	is one of the java based scripting language. 
	
	2 types of pipeline job 
	    1. Scripted pipeline 
		- Traditional way of defining pipeline Job 
 		- Most of the configuration we need to define manually. 
		- All the code will be inside node block.
			node {
				......
			}
	
 	    2. Declarative Pipeline  	
		- New way of defining pipeline job.
		- Most of the configuration are pre-defined.					 			   
		- All the code will be inside pipeline block.
			pipeline {
				......
			}
      
      Agent
	- An agent is a declarative used to define the execution method for pipeline stages.
	- agent is the one which tell stages to execute on which node and its executor.
	- Agent can be specified at two levels 
				a. pipeline level 
				b. Stage level
			
	Types of agent 
		any 
			- This is the default agent, If I wont specify any agent this will be considered.
			- Runs the pipeline stages on any available node executor.
			
		none 
			-  To define executor for each and every stage declare agent as none at pipeline level.
			-  Using this we specify jenkins that agent is controlled at each stage level.
			-  Devining agent at stage level is mandatory. 
				
		label 
			- we can define agent as label at pipeline to run all the stages of pipeline
			  on a perticular node with label.	
      
 Assignment: Install blueocean plugin for pipeline 
              - Blue Ocean 
              - Web for Blue ocean 
              - common API 
              - Dashboard for Blue Ocean
              
             Try creating 5 stage jobs running some scripts (conter your cproject Freestyle Job to pipeline) 
             
Build should not fail if a stage fails.		
	use catchError for this requirement

		stage('Build') {
			steps {
				catchError(buildResult: 'SUCCESS', stageResult: 'FAILURE') {	
					sh ''' 
							exit 0
					   '''
				}	   
			}
		}	

post actions

post block contains additional actions to be performed on completion of the pipeline execution. 
It can contain one or many of the following conditional blocks – always, changed, aborted, failure, success, unstable etc.

post block conditions

always – run this post block irrespective of the pipeline execution status
changed – run this post block only if the pipeline’s execution status is different from the previous build run. 
			E.g., the build failed at an earlier run & ran successfully this time.
aborted – if the build is aborted in the middle of the run. Usually due to manual stopping of the build run
failure – if the build status is failure.
success – if the build ran successfully.
unstable – build is successful but not healthy. 
		    E.g. On a particular build run, test cases ran successfully, but test coverage % is less than expected, 
				 then the build can be marked as unstable		




To backup/restore jenkins_home in github

To restore jenkins_home directory

Join the multi-part of jenkins home archive in to one archive

cat ./jenkins_data.tar.gz.parta* > "jenkins_data.tar.gz"
Decompress the jenkins home

tar -xzvf jenkins_data.tar.gz
To backup jenkins_home directory

Compress the jenkins home to tar archive

tar -czvf jenkins_data.tar.gz ./jenkins_data
Split the tar and push to github

split -b 45M jenkins_data.tar.gz "jenkins_data.tar.gz.part"	